(111) How to set up Cron Jobs on Vercel - NextJS - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMNoCJSGtrY

Transcript:
(00:00) [Music] Hello everyone and welcome to a new video. So in this video I'm going to be showing you how to run a chrome job using Versel Nex.js. Okay, there's like a few tricks that I want to show you because I encountered some problems when I was trying to do it myself. So I hope that you don't get into the same issues and I don't want you to get into the same issues and that's why I'm doing this video. So I'll show you.
(00:28) So let's dive right into this and I have started uh programming with um well in this case you can see this is cursor and yeah so I already have my project and I'll just run it so that you can see I'm going to run the project and then we'll take it from there. Let me show you. Right. So, it's just like a social media scheduler. And if you go uh Okay.
(01:04) So, it's just running, right? So, what what I want to show you is I already have like a chron job, but I want to show you uh how to set up a chron job from scratch. Okay. Okay. So, the first thing that you want to do is you want to create like a chrome job folder. Okay. So, this is I just called the chron and that's the name of the folder.
(01:19) And inside of that folder, I have another folder which has the chron job. Okay. So you don't have to do it this way. I think uh you know in my case I think it's good if you do it that way just because uh you know you have like a like you know what it refers to because it says Chrome, right? So yeah. So you can do it here.
(01:41) I'm just going to create a folder inside of a folder. Okay. And I'm going to call it test crown or something like that. Okay. Just test I guess. And inside of this one, I'll just create like a route.ts. And that would be our uh our route. Okay. All right. Next thing is we'll just import some of the things that we we do we do need.
(02:08) So like this one and then also we need the request. So next request and like that. Okay. So we have those two and now we just need like a simple uh you know function here. So it just be like a get and it's going to be a sync. Okay. And then we have request and this will be of the type of and next request.
(02:43) And since I'm using TypeScript, I need to I need to show that's like of a type next request. And what I'm going to be doing is I'm just going to console log here like something that you'll see in Versell once we deploy. So say hello from hello world amocron. Okay. So now we have the console log and then we just do the return and then this is going to be a next re response and the JSON have let's do this here message um just message and then say hello world something like that okay and then the status We'll say like give us like a 200 if
(03:40) this is working. Um, okay. So, I think I have an extra. Yep. Just like that. And I forgot one here. All right. And I think that's pretty much it. So, just add this here. And then that's it. So, now we have our crown job. Right. So basically uh here we're just well this is a mistake here. Okay. Yeah.
(04:12) So that was an import that we didn't need. So basically we have like um you know next response next request and now we're just setting our chrome job which we're just going to console log hello world. Chrome job is working and the return is going to be like a hello world message with a status of 200. Okay.
(04:30) And this is like a get request. Okay. So we have our route. It's in chrome test route. Okay. So now what we want to do is we want to trigger the chrome job. So how do we do that? Okay. So now that we have our route, the next thing is to set our chron job to work on versel once we deploy it. Okay. So you want to create like a versel.
(04:55) json at the same level as the package.json. That's where you want to create it. And you can see here I have versel.json. So if I open that one then we have this which yeah let me make it bigger. Yeah. So I already have all of this and sorry I keep typing that but yeah so versela JSON. So this is the file.
(05:16) Okay and here I already have like a chrome job which is why I have all of this but I'm just going to remove this and I'm going to show you how to set it from scratch. Right. So you create the versel the JSON and then we'll just follow the and all of this documentation I can show you that some versels overl managing chrome jobs and I'll show you something here.
(05:39) Yeah. So here you uh you cannot see yet but yeah here we have like the chrome jobs and this is like how to do it for the app for the pages other frameworks and then it tells you that you need to create um our celljson and it's here it says that you need to create it and then it has to have this um has to have this uh uh you know this syntax and this is how it has to look. Okay. All right.
(06:08) So I'm just going to maybe copy this and then replace it. And this is once again in versel docs chron jobs. Okay. So let's just replace it. And I I just have one chrome job. So I'm just going to remove this one. I'm going to remove that one. And basically here we have the chrome jobs.
(06:28) We're setting up the chrome jobs. And in path we want the path to the chrome job. So we have it at API chrome test. So we'll change that. and we'll do API chron test. Okay. And then once we have the path then we have to set up an schedule. So when do we want the chron job to run like every uh what amount of time right so in this case this is like every five hours.
(06:55) Okay just go to chat gpd just be like crunch job every two minutes and then you can just copy this expression and then just go back and paste it. Okay. And here you can see that the first one refers to um let me see if I can open this one. Yeah. So first one refers to the minute from 0 to 59. Second one the hour from 0 to 23.
(07:16) And then you have day of the month, month of uh the month from 1 to 12 and day of the week. Okay. And then here it's an explanation. Okay. But this is the schedule. Okay. So let's just go to or you can use this tool that I found. So here you can say like I want a crown job every 3 minutes right and click enter and then it give you it will give you this and then you can just go back paste it here and then this is going to run every 3 minutes. Okay.
(07:51) And let's test this. Okay. All right. And let me put every two minutes because I want to show you something. And is it giving me a problem here? Let's see. No, I think it's good. It is good. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's good. Okay. All right. So, next thing that we want to do, uh, we can just deploy this. So, I'm just going to deploy this on Versel and then you'll see that all the changes have been done. Okay.
(08:23) So, let me go here. I'll just do the G add get commit. I'll just commit this. I'll just say chrome test and get get push and then we'll see if it runs or not. Okay. So then how can we uh see if the chrome job has been scheduled on Versel? So if we did all of this correctly, if we have our route and if we set up our Versel.
(08:51) json correctly, then we can just go to Verscell. So let's go to Verscell. go to your project and then go to settings and here you can go to crown jobs. Okay, but let me see if it has finished. So it's still uh building. So let's just give it a second and then I'll show you. Okay. All right. So meanwhile, uh let's see, let me refresh. Okay, it's done.
(09:17) So it's been uh pushed to production 45 seconds ago. And now let's go to settings. Let's go to chron jobs. And you can also see them in logs, but I'll just go to chron jobs. And as you can see, I already have here a chrome job. And I removed the one that I had. So here it's the chron job, right? And you can see and you can run it if you wanted to uh manually from here or you can just go and view logs.
(09:48) And this is supposed to run every two minutes. Okay, every two minutes. So let me refresh. And you can see that it hasn't run so far. Okay. So, let's just wait for two minutes and I'll be back. It's 1120. Yeah. So, 11:22 or 23. I'll come back just to make sure that the chrome job is running. Okay. And I'll I'll let you know something. It's not going to run.
(10:10) But let's just uh let's just show you. Okay. Okay. So, if you see that your Chrome job is not running, it's because of the following. And I'll show you. And I did this purposely because I wanted to show you uh how to fix it. Okay. So if you just deploy this, this is not going to work. This is not going to cut it.
(10:28) So I'll show you why. So here you can see that's working. But it's because I added something behind the scenes. But since then it hasn't um hasn't worked again. See? So this is not working because you don't have the message. And this was at 11:32. It's already 11:33. We should wait until 11:34, but it's not going to work. Okay.
(10:49) and see it's 11:30 uh 34 and it's not working. Okay. So basically what you have to do is you want to go here and what you need to add is the following. So you need to come here and add export const uh revalidate equal to zero like that. Okay. So you want to add this line and what does this line do? So basically this line tells uh Verscell.
(11:20) So if you don't have that line uh Verscell is just gonna cache your route. Okay. So it's just going to cach your route and then the crown job won't run each time. But if you tell Verscell you know this export comes revalidate equal to zero. This invokes the function uh fresh.
(11:39) So then the crown job is going to run each time. So this is just like a caching thing with Verscell. So if you don't have that line, Verscell is going to cach that route and your chron job won't run ever. But if you have this revalidate equal to zero, then it's going to tell vers always start fresh. Always call this route fresh. Okay? And then that's what's going to fix it.
(12:01) So if we go I haven't committed this change and just to keep showing you here. So if we uh refresh, you see that the crown job hasn't run. Last time that it ran was 11:32 and that's when I had it because I added it just to test it. But see since then it hasn't run and it's been already like two minutes 3 minutes right so it's not going to work.
(12:26) So let me come here and let me just deploy this and then you'll see that it will start working again. So force dynamics uh get push and then we'll go and check here once again. So let me So it's still building. So let's just wait and then we'll see that it keeps running every two minutes. Okay. And I might come back at 11:40 something just so that I can show you that it's running and working properly.
(12:54) Okay. All right. So since we're still waiting uh the next thing that I wanted to show you is the usage and pricing for the chron jobs. So maybe if you have like a hobby plan and you see that your chrome job is not running even after you know doing all of the things correctly then you'll see that it's because of the pricing and the usage.
(13:15) So if you have like a hobby plan then you'll get like two crown jobs per month or per account as it says and it trigger once a day. Okay, I have the pro. So that's why I I have like 40 crown jobs and it's unlimited crown invocations. So I can call them, you know, at specific times and stuff like that. And enterprise has like a 100 crown jobs.
(13:37) Okay? So if your thing is not working, if your crown job is not working, then maybe you have to update your plan. But first try all of the things that I've showed you and then see if it doesn't work. Okay. Okay. It's it's already 11:40. So by this time the chrome job had to run twice already. Okay. So let's go here. Let's refresh. Okay.
(13:59) We're just waiting for another one because it's 11. Okay. Let's just wait a few seconds and then you'll see that the crown job is going to run once again. But it's working. You can see that 11:38 it just run. So if we give it two minutes, you'll see that it will run again. Let's just wait. Okay. 11:40. Almost there. Almost there.
(14:33) Not yet. Hasn't hit the 11 40 and 38 seconds yet. Okay. See, it run once again. Okay. So, and you can see the timing. 1138 38 11:40 38 Okay, so it's super exact. That's why. And then here it's going to run once again at 1142 and 38 seconds. Okay, so that's pretty much it for this tutorial.
(15:02) If you want to learn more about Chrome jobs, just visit the versel.com docs and here you can learn more about the chrome jobs. And just to recap, just create like a route. Just create like your Chrome folder. And yeah, you can put it inside of a this is just like a test one. And don't forget this line because this is the line that's going to tell Verscell to actually fetch the route fresh. Okay.
(15:25) And Versel.json. This sets up the chrome job on Versell once you deployed. So this is super important. Okay. And that's it for this tutorial. I I hope that you've learned something and uh yeah, if you like this video, just you know, leave a comment, ask your questions, uh subscribe to the channel, share it with other people, and that would be that would be all.
(15:48) But um thank you. Thank you for watching these videos. Don't forget to subscribe to the channel and I'll see you on the next one. Okay, there we go. Thank you. Bye. [Music]

How to Setup Cron Jobs on Vercel
Learn how to setup and use cron jobs on Vercel

 Rich Haines

Knowledge Base/Backend
2 min read
Copy page
Ask AI about this page
Last updated November 10, 2025
Cron jobs are time-based scheduling tools used to automate repetitive tasks. By using a specific syntax called a cron expression, you can define the frequency and timing of each task. This helps improve efficiency and ensures that important processes are performed consistently.
Vercel supports cron jobs for Serverless and Edge Functions. This guide will show you how to create your first cron job. Alternatively, you can start from a template.
Create a cron job
The following steps will demonstrate how to create a cron job on Vercel that executes every day at 5 am UTC.
Create a function
First, create a Serverless or Edge Function for your project. The function will be called every time the cron job is triggered.
Create or update your vercel.json file
Go to your vercel.json file and add the following code:
vercel.json
{
  "crons": [
    {
      "path": "/api/cron",
      "schedule": "0 5 * * *"
    }
  ]
}
•	The path must start with /
•	The schedule property must be a string that represents a cron expression. In this example, the job is scheduled to execute every day at 5:00 am UTC
Deploy your project
Once your project is deployed on Vercel, our build process will create the cron job. Cron jobs are invoked only for production deployments. Preview deployments are ignored. You can also deploy to your production domain via Git.
Your cron job is now active and will call the /api/cron path every day at 5:00 am UTC. Learn more about cron jobs.
Alternative cron providers
If you prefer using a different provider for cron jobs, the following services pair well with Vercel:
•	Upstash's QStash
•	Pipedream
•	Cronhub
•	Zeplo
•	Mergent
•	Inngest
•	Defer


